# DataMiningProject
This is for data mining project about energy company stocks.  
### Purpose
The project studies climate change by studying the stocks of green energy and fossil fuel companies. With clustering, association analysis, and estimation, we study the trend of stocks, predict the future trend, and give recommendations on investing in energy stocks. We performed K-Means clustering, ran the apriori algorithm with the transaction list for association analysis, and used linear regression, support vector machines, decision trees, and random forest under blocking time series splitting and normal time series splitting. As a result, it is good to invest in STEM, FSLR, SEDG, ENPH, FREY, ORA, AES, NOVA, and THR. Green energy stocks have higher potential than fossil fuel stocks. In the future, we should focus more on diversification to design portfolios with high returns and low risks by performing more analysis.  
### Summary
Generally speaking, we first found one cluster of stocks—including FSLR, FREY, LIN, GM, ETN, ORA, AES, OXY, TTE, CVX, KMI, PXD, OVV, KBR, CIVI, KNTK, ROCC, NRG, USAC—to buy due to their excellent short-term momentum. One cluster of stocks—including TSLA, PLUG, JHX, MNTK, AMPS, AZRE, WAVE, and ELLO—to hold as they tend to still have small but positive returns, at least in the short term. One stock VVPR to hold in the short term but sell in the long term. The remaining stocks are to sell due to bad short-term momentum and returns. Also, we found that stocks in the renewable energy sector generally have better potential than those in the fossil fuel sector.
Association Analysis gives us association rules with a confidence level larger than 0.7 where stocks have high positive co-movement with each other in each cluster. We should keep an eye on these buckets by investigating their short-term and long-term returns, similar to what we did in clustering. If some bucket shows good short-term momentum, we may buy a large quantity because the high positive co-movement based on the association rules will likely give very high returns. However, we should avoid holding or investing in stocks in the same bucket together in the long term because it will reduce our portfolio’s diversification, thus leading to higher risks due to high co-movement.
The estimation task picking the best combination of model and splitting rules failed to predict the real price trends for the nineteen stocks in cluster 0 we found in the clustering analysis. Our current prediction models could only catch some delayed trends. In that situation, we won’t be able to make valuable decisions to buy in or sell out to increase our return based on our prediction.  
### Conclusion
According to the suggestions above, we may buy, hold, or sell stocks in our pool. Also, we may focus more on renewable energy stocks to seek more stocks with good potential in the future. However, our analysis needs to be more comprehensive, and the biggest problem is lacking diversification. Both clustering and association analysis give stocks similar to each other in returns. Still, in reality, we should invest in stocks with high diversification so that our portfolio can have lower risks. Hence we need to avoid investing in stocks in one cluster or one association rule. Further analysis can be made to investigate how to achieve diversification as long as high future returns. Due to the limited test data and features, our predictions of the prices using various machine learning models and splitting approaches failed to predict the future trend and prices of the nineteen stocks we found in clustering analysis. The task of estimating future stock prices is very hard due to the fluctuating and inconsistent stock markets, so machine-learning algorithms using dates might not be enough, and we can try deep-learning algorithms in the future, and we could also use our models to predict medium-term or long-term performance, but we have to wait longer for the independent dataset to check our results. We also need more informational features for the training of the model, such as the market sentiments, news, and companies’ financial statements to predict stock prices in the longer term.
